---
title: "Michal Frankl"
image: "/images/people/michal-frankl.jpg"
---
**Michal Frankl** is the head of the department “Knowledge and Participation” of the Leibniz Institute for the History and Culture of Eastern Europe. He is the author of _„Prag ist nunmehr antisemitisch“_ (2011), a history of Czech antisemitism at the end of the 19th century and together with Miloslav Szabó of _Budování státu bez antisemitismu?_ (Building of a State With No Antisemitism?, 2015), an analysis of antisemitism in the transition from the Habsburg Empire to the Czechoslovak nation state. With Kateřina Čapková, he wrote _Unsichere Zuflucht_ (2012), a critical history of Czechoslovak refugee policy in the 1930s. His last book (_Občané země nikoho_, Citizens of the No Man’s Land, 2023) examines the rapid appearance of no man’s lands for refugees at the end of the 1930s and the ethnonational reorientation of citizenship in Eastern and Central Europe. He was the principal investigator of the ERC Consolidator project “Unlikely refuge? Refugees and citizens in East-Central Europe in the 20th century” hosted the Masaryk Institute and Archives of the Czech Academy of Sciences. Starting with 2025, he is the principal investigator of the project “Migration and us: Mobility, Refugees and Borders in a Humanities Perspective” (MyGRACE) funded through the Johannes Amos Comenius Programme. He served as work package leader in the European Holocaust Research Infrastructure projects and helped to develop the EHRI Document Blog, online editions as well as the Geospatial Repository.
